README.md, before:

# Important safety information

**This program is experimental software, not developed or supported by Bayer. It might damage your meter or render it unreliable. Use this software at your own risk. You have been warned!**

# Glucotux
This project is done because I never found an application to read data from a Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; glucose meter running on a current Linux supporting a GUI. Most stuff I found was more or less experimental or done not using my favorite programming language : C.

So in mid 2012 I decided to do it by myself.

## gluctotux
This application is not implemented yet!

It should be a GUI to the work that is developed with glucotux-cli.

## glucotux-cli
This is the playground to test the code for handling a connection to a Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; glucose meter and to read out and display the data in a human readable way.

glucotux-cli uses the "Data Transfer Mode" of "ASTM Standard E 1394-91". So it reads out all available data records.

The output file holds all result records each in one line. The data is blank separated and read like this example.
```
R    23   Glucose  201706141312  154mg/dL  B
```
| **value** | **meaning** | **comment** |
| - | - | - |
| R | record type | 'H' header, 'P' not used, 'R' clinical result |
| 23 | record number | starts with '1' and may run up to '2000' |
| Glucose | result type | |
|  201706141312 | time stamp | YYYYMMDDhhmm |
| 154mg/dL | result and unit | |
| B | user mark | 'B' before meal, 'A' after meal, 'F' fasting, 'N' none |


## Environment
- Bayer Contour USB Next &reg;
- Xubuntu 17.10 with kernel 4.13.0-36
- 64 bit x86 PC
- GNU Make 4.1
- gcc version 7.2.0
- libgtk-3-dev
- atom 1.24.0
- Coding style
  - intending with four spaces / no tabs!
  - single line comments beginning with '//' (C++ style)

## Create
In this direcetory simply call
```
$ make
```
To remove all objects and binaries call
```
$ make clean
```
If you don't the want buid in debugging code you should comment out the first `CCFLAGS` line in `Makefile` an use the second one :
```
#CFLAGS = -I $(DINC) -Wall -O3 -DVERSION=\"$(VERSION)\" -D_DEBUG_
CFLAGS = -I $(DINC) -Wall -O3 -DVERSION=\"$(VERSION)\"
```

## Run
```
$ bin/glucotux-cli -h

"Glucotux CLI version V0.03", (c) Uwe Jantzen (Klabautermann-Software) Mar  8 2018

Usage:
        bin/glucotux-cli [options] [-o <filename>]
Options:
        -v            enable verbose mode
        -d            enable debug mode
        -h            show this help then stop without doing anything more

        -o <filename> file to put the data in,
                      if not set data is printed to screen
```
To get connection to a Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; device you must run the application with superuser permissions.

It is required that you run the application FIRST and then attach the Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; device to a USB port.
```
$ sudo bin/glucotux-cli -o 180307.dat

"Glucotux CLI version V0.03", (c) Uwe Jantzen (Klabautermann-Software) Mar  8 2018

2000
Glucotux CLI finished
```
If you do not  as this you will get the following error message :
```
$ sudo bin/glucotux-cli -o 180307.dat

"Glucotux CLI version V0.03", (c) Uwe Jantzen (Klabautermann-Software) Mar  8 2018

-
Communication can't be established if Contour device is just attached!
Please remove the Contour device and wait some seconds.
Then FIRST start the program and SECOND attach the Contour device.
```

# Credits

This code is not forked but depends largely on the work of Steve Sloan
(CodeMonkeySteve) [contour-glucose](https://github.com/CodeMonkeySteve/contour-glucose) and the fork of it done by pietrasagh [contour-glucose](https://github.com/pietrasagh/contour-glucose/tree/contour_plus_one).

Commit message:

More information in the readme file. To do list added.

README.md, after:

# Important safety information

**This program is experimental software, not developed or supported by Bayer. It might damage your meter or render it unreliable. Use this software at your own risk. You have been warned!**

# Glucotux
This project is done because I never found an application to read data from a Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; glucose meter running on a current Linux supporting a GUI. Most stuff I found was more or less experimental or done not using my favorite programming language : C.

So in mid 2012 I decided to do it by myself.

More information in German language can be found on my webpage [www.GlucoTux.de](http://www.glucotux.de/)

## gluctotux
This application is not implemented yet!

It should be a GUI to the work that is developed with glucotux-cli.

## glucotux-cli
This is the playground to test the code for handling a connection to a Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; glucose meter and to read out and display the data in a human readable way.

glucotux-cli uses the "Data Transfer Mode" of "ASTM Standard E 1394-91". So it reads out all available data records.

The output file holds all result records each in one line. The data is blank separated and read like this example.
```
R    23   Glucose  201706141312  154mg/dL  B
```
| **value** | **meaning** | **comment** |
| - | - | - |
| R | record type | 'H' header, 'P' not used, 'R' clinical result |
| 23 | record number | starts with '1' and may run up to '2000' |
| Glucose | result type | |
|  201706141312 | time stamp | YYYYMMDDhhmm |
| 154mg/dL | result and unit | |
| B | user mark | 'B' before meal, 'A' after meal, 'F' fasting, 'N' none |


## Environment
- Bayer Contour USB Next &reg;
- Xubuntu 17.10 with kernel 4.13.0-36
- 64 bit x86 PC
- GNU Make 4.1
- gcc version 7.2.0
- libgtk-3-dev
- atom 1.24.0
- Coding style
  - intending with four spaces / no tabs!
  - single line comments beginning with '//' (C++ style)

## Create
In this direcetory simply call
```
$ make
```
To remove all objects and binaries call
```
$ make clean
```
If you don't the want buid in debugging code you should comment out the first `CCFLAGS` line in `Makefile` an use the second one :
```
#CFLAGS = -I $(DINC) -Wall -O3 -DVERSION=\"$(VERSION)\" -D_DEBUG_
CFLAGS = -I $(DINC) -Wall -O3 -DVERSION=\"$(VERSION)\"
```

## Run
```
$ bin/glucotux-cli -h

"Glucotux CLI version V0.03", (c) Uwe Jantzen (Klabautermann-Software) Mar  8 2018

Usage:
        bin/glucotux-cli [options] [-o <filename>]
Options:
        -v            enable verbose mode
        -d            enable debug mode
        -h            show this help then stop without doing anything more

        -o <filename> file to put the data in,
                      if not set data is printed to screen
```
To get connection to a Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; device you must run the application with superuser permissions.

It is required that you run the application FIRST and then attach the Bayer Contour USB Next &reg; device to a USB port.
```
$ sudo bin/glucotux-cli -o 180307.dat

"Glucotux CLI version V0.03", (c) Uwe Jantzen (Klabautermann-Software) Mar  8 2018

2000
Glucotux CLI finished
```
If you do not  as this you will get the following error message :
```
$ sudo bin/glucotux-cli -o 180307.dat

"Glucotux CLI version V0.03", (c) Uwe Jantzen (Klabautermann-Software) Mar  8 2018

-
Communication can't be established if Contour device is just attached!
Please remove the Contour device and wait some seconds.
Then FIRST start the program and SECOND attach the Contour device.
```
# What's Planned
Topics that I have on my to do list you may [find here](ToDo.md).

# Credits

This code is not forked but depends largely on the work of Steve Sloan
(CodeMonkeySteve) [contour-glucose](https://github.com/CodeMonkeySteve/contour-glucose) and the fork of it done by pietrasagh [contour-glucose](https://github.com/pietrasagh/contour-glucose/tree/contour_plus_one).
